# Set Up Your Drupal Project

This is a guide for integrating Drupal Grunt Build and Testing Tasks with your
Drupal project.

## Start with the example

It's recommended to use the included example as an initial scaffold for your
Drupal project. To download this template, you can use the following two
commands:

1. In an empty directory, run:
   `npm install grunt grunt-drupal-tasks`

2. Copy the contents of node_modules/grunt-drupal-tasks/example to your starting
   directory, by running:
   `cp -rf node_modules/grunt-drupal-tasks/example/* .`

The directory's contents should now look like this:

```
Gruntconfig.json
Gruntfile.js
behat.yml
composer.json
features/
  ...
node_modules/
  ...
package.json
phpmd.xml
src/
  modules/
  profiles/
  project.make
  sites/
  static/
  themes/
```

## Add project code and configuration

After setting up the project directory, the next step is to configure the Drush
make file and add your custom code and configuration in the directories under
**src/**.

- Place custom modules in **src/modules/**. When the project is built, the
  contents of src/modules/ become part of the Drupal's sites/all/modules/
  directory (via a symlink from sites/all/modules/custom/ to src/modules/).

- Place custom installation profiles in **src/profiles/**. When the project is
  built, the contents of src/profiles become part of Drupal's sites/all/modules/
  directory (via symlink from profiles/ to each profile in src/profiles/).

- Customize the Drush make file that is used at the start of the build process.
  The example includes **project.make** but this file can be replaced or renamed
  with a setting change in Gruntconfig.json (see below).

- Include any sites directories (like "default"), optionally with settings.php
  or other files, and if needed a multi-site sites.php in **src/sites/**. (The
  contents of src/sites/ are copied into sites/.)

- Include any static files that should be copied into the Drupal docroot on
  build in **src/static/**. This allows for overriding files like .htaccess.

- Place custom themes in **src/themes/**. When the project is built, the
  contents of src/themes/ become part of the Drupal's sites/all/themes/
  directory (via a symlink from sites/all/themes/custom/ to src/themes/).

At this point, you should be able to run `grunt` to build a Drupal site into
**build/html/** using the make file and adding any custom modules, themes, and
other files included in src/ directories.

## Use other features

The example template bundles a **composer.json** file that installs supporting
tools, like Behat with the Drupal Extension, PHPMD (PHP Mess Detector), and the
PHP Code Sniffer, among others. By default, the build runs "composer install" to
install these tools. You can modify composer.json to include other dependencies
for your project.

To support Behat tests, the example includes a basic **behat.yml** configuration
file and a **features/** directory for test cases.

The example also includes **phpmd.xml** to provide some sensible defaults for
Drupal development to the PHPMD utility.

## Customize the tasks

Drupal Grunt Build and Testing Tasks is designed to provide sensible default
behaviors for Drupal projects, but allow these assumptions to be overridden.
There are three ways to customize the build and testing tasks:

- **Gruntconfig.json** is a settings file that allows certain paths and optional
  features to be configured on a project-specific basis. See the next section
  for more information on the settings in Gruntconfig.json.

- Many core tasks, like the default build task or the analyze and validate
  tasks, define a series of sub-tasks to run. The sequence of sub-tasks can be
  modified in the project's **Gruntfile.js**. See EXTEND.md.

- In some cases, you may need to add new tasks or alter existing tasks for your
  project. See EXTEND.md.

## Modify Gruntconfig.json

The following sections document all configuration options that can be set in the
project-specific Gruntconfig.json file.

### Core Settings

The core set of configuration options for Gruntconfig.json specify the basic
build parameters: the code to build, and the output directories to use.

This is the minimum set of configuration options:

```
{
  "srcPaths": {
    "drupal": "src",
    "make": "src/project.make"
  },
  "buildPaths": {
    "build": "build",
    "html": "build/html",
    "package": "build/packages",
    "reports": "build/reports",
    "temp": "build/temp"
  }
}
```

**srcPaths.drupal**: The directory that contains all project-specific Drupal
code and configuration. Grunt Drupal Tasks assumes this directory has the
following structure:

```
src/
  modules/
  profiles/
  sites/
  static/
  themes/
```

**srcPaths.make**: The Drush make file used to assumble the Drupal project.

**buildPaths.build**: The directory that should be used for miscellaneous build
artifacts. This can be the parent directory of the following build paths.

**buildPaths.html**: The directory that should be used for the Drupal docroot
build destination generated by the default build operation.

**buildPaths.package**: The directory that should be used to store packages
generated on demand by the *package* operation.

**buildPaths.reports**: The directory that should be used for output from the
analysis and validation tools.

**buildPaths.temp**: The directory that should be used for temporary build
artifacts. This can be a subdirectory of buildPaths.html.

### Analyze Settings

This is an example of the settings for analyze tasks:

```
{
  "phpmd": {
    "configPath": "phpmd.xml",
    "path": "bin/phpmd"
  }
}
```

**phpmd.configPath**: The configuration file to use with PHPMD. Defaults to
*phpmd.xml*.

**phpmd.path**: The path to the PHPMD executable.

> If there is no `phpmd` key in the configuration, the system will assume you
are not using PHPMD and will suppress it from the system.

### Behat Settings

This is an example of the settings for Behat tasks:

```
{
  "siteUrls": {
    "default": "http://project.local",
    "subsite": "http://subsite.project.local"
  },
  "behat": {
    "flags": "--tags '~@javascript'"
  }
}
```

**siteUrls**: A map of Drupal subsite names to the URLs by which each can be
accessed for testing by Behat.

**behat.flags**: A string with any command-line arguments and options that
should be used while invoking Behat. These flags can be overridden by using the
`--behat-flags` option when running `grunt`. Common use cases are to include or
exclude tests according to tags or to use an alternative profile defined in
`behat.yml`.

### Drush Settings

This is an example of the settings for Drush tasks:

```
{
  "drush": {
    "make": {
      "args": ["--force-complete", "--working-copy"]
    }
  }
}
```

**drush.make.args**: An array of arguments to pass to Drush for the make
operation.

### Theme Settings

This is an example of the settings for theme tasks:

```
{
  "themes": {
    "spartan": {
      "path": "<%= config.srcPaths.drupal %>/themes/spartan",
      "compass": true
    }
  }
}
```

**themes**: Defines each custom Drupal theme and enables features, like Sass
processing by Compass.

**themes.<theme>.compass**: Enable compass preprocessing. Either `true` to
enable with default compass options, or a configuration object to be passed
directly to
[grunt-contrib-compass](https://github.com/gruntjs/grunt-contrib-compass)
for this theme.

### Validate Settings

This is an example of the settings for the validate tasks:

```
{
  "phpcs": {
    "path": "bin/phpcs",
    "standard": "vendor/drupal/coder/coder_sniffer/Drupal"
  }
}
```

**phpcs.path**: The path to the PHPCS executable.

**phpcs.standard**: The PHPCS coding standard to use. The example composer.json
installs the Drupal Coder's standard, the path of which is shown above.

> If there is no `phpcs` key in the configuration, the system will assume you
are not using PHPCS and will suppress it from the system.

### Package Settings

This is an example of the settings for package tasks:

```
{
  "packages": {
    "srcFiles": ["!sites/*/files/**", "!xmlrpc.php", "!modules/php/*"],
    "projFiles": ["README*", "bin/**"]
  }
}
```

**packages.srcFiles**: An array of files or file patterns to include or exclude
from the build output when building a package. The above excludes files within
any sites/*/files directory, and Drupal's xmlrpc.php and PHP Filter. For more on
this format, see: http://gruntjs.com/configuring-tasks#files

**packages.projFiles**: An array of files or file patterns to include or exclude
from the project directory when building a package. The above includes README
files and files under bin/ in the project's package.
